Welcome to container
orchestration.
After watching this video,
you will be able to define
the challenges of
container management,
determine when container
orchestration is needed,
and demonstrate container
orchestration benefits.
Everyone's container journey
starts with one container.
However, things don't
stay this way for long.
Over time, new applications
are written and
projects are deployed globally
to increase availability.
That one initial container
inevitably becomes
several containers.
Initially, that growth
is easy to handle,
but soon it's overwhelming.
Consider connecting,
managing, and scaling
hundreds or thousands
of containers into
a large application like
a database or web app.
This can easily get
out of control.
To create scale and manage
large numbers of containers,
container orchestration
is needed.
Container orchestration is
a process that automates
the container life
cycle of a container
based or containerized
application.
This includes
deployment, management,
scaling, networking,
and availability.
Container orchestration
is necessary
in large dynamic environments,
since it streamlines complexity,
enables hands-off
deployment and scaling,
increases speed,
agility, and efficiency.
Seamlessly integrates
into CI/CD workflows,
and DevOp practices,
and allows development teams
to use resources
more efficiently.
Container orchestration can be
implemented on premises
and on public,
private, or multi
cloud environments.
It is often a critical part of
an organization
security, orchestration,
automation, and
response requirements,
also known as SOAR requirements.
Container orchestration
tools have
a wide variety of features.
These features include defining
which container images
make up the application,
and where they are
located, in what registry,
improving provisioning
and deployment
of containers for
a more automated,
unified, and smooth process,
securing network connections
between containers,
ensuring availability
and performance
by relocating the containers
to another host if an outage or
shortage of system
resources occurs.
Scaling containers to meet
demand and load
balance requests,
handling resource allocation and
scheduling of containers
to the underlying
infrastructure,
performing rolling
updates and rollbacks,
and conducting health checks
to ensure applications are
running or performing
the necessary actions
when checks fail.
Container orchestration
uses configuration files
written in YAML or JSON.
These files configure
each container
so it can find resources,
establish a network,
and store logs.
Container orchestration
also automatically
schedules the deployment of a
new container to a cluster,
and finds the right
host based on
predefined settings
or restrictions.
Additionally, container
orchestration manages
the container's
life cycle based on
specifications in the
configuration file.
This includes system parameters,
like CPU and memory,
and file parameters,
like proximity and
file metadata,
and container
orchestration supports
scaling and enhances
productivity through automation.
Here are some well known
container orchestration tools.
Marathon is a framework
for Apache Mesos,
an open source cluster
manager that was
developed by the University
of California at Berkeley.
It allows you to scale
container infrastructure by
automating the bulk of
management and monitoring tasks.
HachiCorps Nomad is
a free and open source
cluster management
and scheduling tool
that supports docker
and other stand alone,
virtualized or
containerized applications
on all major operating systems
across all infrastructure,
whether on premises
or in the Cloud.
This flexibility lets teams work
with any type and
level of workload.
Docker Swarm automates
the deployment of
containerized applications,
but was designed
specifically to work with
docker engine and
other docker tools,
making it a popular choice for
teams already working
in docker environments.
Developed by Google
and maintained
by the Cloud Native
Computing Foundation,
CNCF, the open source platform
Kubernetes is
the defactor standard for
container orchestration.
Kubernetes automates a host
of container management tasks,
including deployment,
storage provisioning,
load balancing,
and scaling, service
discovery, and self-healing,
the ability to restart,
replace, or remove
a failed container.
With broad functionality and
an expanding ecosystem of
open source supporting tools,
Kubernetes is widely supported
by leading Cloud providers,
many of whom now offer fully
managed Kubernetes services.
Container orchestration
helps to meet
business goals and increase
profitability by
using automation.
The benefits of container
orchestration for developers and
administrators include
increased productivity,
removing the burden
of individually
installing and managing
each container,
which in turn reduces
errors and frees
development teams to focus
on application improvement.
Faster deployments,
iteratively releasing
new features and
capabilities faster
and deploying
containers and containerized
applications rapidly.
Reduced costs, being
cost effective,
service containers have
lower overhead and use
fewer resources than
virtual machines
or traditional servers.
Stronger security,
sharing resources and isolating
application processes,
improving the container's
overall security,
easier scalability,
scaling applications using
a single command and
faster error recovery,
maintaining high availability
by detecting and
resolving issues
like infrastructure
failures automatically.
In this video, you learn that
managing large numbers of
containers is difficult.
Container orchestration
automates the
container life cycle,
resulting in faster deployments,
reduced errors,
higher availability,
and stronger security.
Popular container orchestration
tools include Marathon,
Nomad, Docker Swarm,
and Kubernetes.
Finally, container orchestration
improves productivity,
deployment, costs,
security, scalability,
and error recovery.